Welcome back. So, let's go ahead and talk
about infinite loops. We use these loops,
we will use these loops, when we don't
know the exact number of iterations. So,
we will execute the loop until some
condition is satisfied. So, let's go ahead
and take a look at the example where we
have modified the previous example in
which the user keeps entering a number
until the imput is -1. Here
is the example, I have
just modified it a little bit. The
modification is here in the for loop. So,
let me just do this. It has no difference in
terms of the code, I just want to isolate
this part for you so you can see it. So,
again as before we have "int i = 1"
but hey guess what there was no
condition in between, and the iteration keeps on going. So, this is always true there is
nothing to terminate this loop unless
there is some logic implemented within
the loop to actually terminate it, the loop
will continue on running pretty much
indefinitely.
However, it will self-terminate with the execution of the
break statement once -1 is
entered. Here let me show you. I can build and
run this, and I can enter see I can just
keep on entering numbers, but it will
never end. So, it will continuously keep
on asking me to enter a number until I type
in -1. Then it's going to give me the
sum and terminate the execution, and
pretty much exit the program.
So, this will continue on repeatedly,
repeating indefinitely until the
user enters something, until the user
enters -1. But, that's not the important part, this is
how you create the infinite for loop by
just leaving the condition empty. You
could also give a condition which will
never be satisfied,
perhaps not in this particular statement,
but there are some situations where you can do
that. Perhaps you could even do it here
I'm just too lazy to think about it now,
because it's completely irrelevant as
you can just leave it empty and that's
pretty much it. That's going to create
the infinite loop without any problems.
Now the infinite version of the while loop,
well this would be it. So,
while and then you could just type in
true. So, while true I don't know let's
go ahead and write some pseudocode.
"while (true) some code..." and below we could
write an if statement like we did before,
"if(condition)" and then you would have "break" So,
this would be this would be an example
of the infinite while loop. So,
you could write in "while(true)" or you
could just write a positive
integer here. You could just write a
positive number here, sorry. Just type in "1" for
example. This would also evaluate the
true and this would continue forever
with some logic within the loop the loop would be terminated, like with the
the break statement. So, one
more example would be basically instead
of 1 you could write in while I don't
know "227" Makes no sense but as I said
you could write a positive number here and it would evaluate the true. You could
write a negative
numbers, etc. I do believe that I have
shown that in the previous examples, but
I don't like to play around with these
things while I'm coding, I like to write either "1" or "0" because those are synonyms for true and
false, or I like to
write true or false.
There is no reason why you should write
anything else other than that if you
just need the evaluation to be true
continuously, however
you know later on things get
complicated, but for the time being there
is no need to use anything else other than
"true" or "false" and "0" and "1" but as
we go through the code later on the
need becomes greater and greater, and the demands become greater and greater. So,
you have to use different things. So, I
could have written "227" here and this
would also be an infinite loop. Anyway,
that's all I want to show in this brief
example here, now in the follow up tutorial I'll just explain nested loop. How
you can nest them one inside of another
and that will be it, as far as the loops
are concerned.